hello everyone and welcome to another
episode of Travis talks this week I am
discussing a surrender at 20 situation
and explicitly this is a situation that
is occurring across a lot of eSports
sites and gaming sites whatever but I
decided that surrender at 20 was a good
candidate because everybody knows about
surrender 20 and everybody loves mu beat
and by the way I want to clarify that mu
beat has no idea that I'm doing this
video I didn't talk to him about it
maybe I should have but there's always
some kind of weird hostility that
happens whenever you start talking about
the economics of website stuff and I
want to make sure everyone knows he had
nothing to do with this blame me if you
feel frustrated but one thing that I
realized very rapidly after I became an
independent content creator in the past
couple of months or returned to
independent consecration is that a lot
of people don't understand the economics
of how this stuff works content in
general and eSports and so I've decided
I'm going to help fill everybody in a
lot of people thought that I was
actually paying double of $5,000 per
interview when I made that joke which
just shows that there's a great lack of
understanding of how this stuff works so
let's talk about surrender at 20 bear
with me I'm self producing this is
surrender 20 a lot of people know about
it it is a site that doesn't just cover
eSports but also covers pretty much
everything that's happening in League of
Legends and by the way it gets a ton of
traffic you can kind of tell because
like this second post here has 1,600
comments here's another one that has
nine hundred one of them down here this
has 2,500 hilariously by the way the
eSports coverage here only has three
comments so you can tell this site gets
a lot of a lot of traffic because amount
of people that will comment very small
percentage and they're usually first
with all the exciting League of Legends
news out there all right now I want to
talk about something that happened on
July 11th so I'll go ahead and pull this
up so mu beat July 11th this is a little
bit under two months ago wrote been in a
rut lately we are having extremely
stressful behind-the-scenes issues
behind the scenes add issues dropped
over one third
it's revenue in the past three weeks if
you've never experienced it's hard to
get communication places regarding ads
on-site stuff to serve et cetera the
hardest part of surrender 20 is
unreliability so many suddenly 30% less
income going forward disconnected to
work with a lot of ad supply as well
talks about he's having hospital issues
and family issues and all that kind of
stuff now this is really sad to hear not
just because mu B is a great guy which
by the way if you haven't ever heard of
MU beat he's beloved on reddit here's a
picture of me and mu beat back when I
didn't have a beard but he has this
amazing beard this is us at 2014 World
Finals in Seoul and right before like
crazy crazy stadium filled up and you
can tell obviously that I got so
inspired by mu beats beard that I
decided to grow my own because it was
just that inspiring anyway
mu beat is a fantastic dude and one of
the few people I think in eSports that
has to my understanding it never had any
drama with anybody else you know
everybody in eSports in League of
Legends all these personalities
youtubers Twitter people players
everybody ends up having drama mu be
universally loved right so that's part
of the reason why this is such sad sad
information to hear that he's having
issues with the revenue and again you
can kind of look at those tweets to see
what else is going on some some health
issues as well so obviously really sad
to hear about this and again it kind of
inspired me to talk a little bit about
what's going on and I have to mention
adblock now whenever anybody mentions
adblock there's a really interesting
thing that happens especially in the
eSports space where everyone who's using
adblock freaks out and is like it's
completely fine for me to use adblock
every website has terrible tracking
things I should be able to use adblock
as much as I want all right now I am NOT
here to tell you not to use that block
and I am NOT here to talk to you about
and argue with you or scold you or
anything like that alright for me that
ship sailed years ago everyone's going
to use adblock and it's just an easy
thing to install
there's no point in trying to make an
argument about adblock but let's talk a
little bit about adblock because you you
can't really ignore the existence of
adblock whenever you're talking about
the economics sorry
fixing my chain and for some reason I'm
just doing that in the middle this video
you can't really talk about the
economics of content especially in the
eSports and gaming space without
discussing adblock all right so and
virtually any other industry a site that
has this much attention going to it
would be wildly successful and whoever's
running it would be able to hire other
people and make a lot of money and
perhaps even sell the website to one
eighty number of different gaming or
media companies or whatever right it's
just it's got so much traffic it is
tremendous however mu beat you know
losing a third of his revenue is huge to
him because guess what I would guess
again I don't know the specifics but I
would guess I'm no stranger to media
that he's not making a lot of money off
of this site and we're going to talk
about a couple different reasons why one
of them again as I said before as
adblock so here is the CEO of gamers uh
let's see right around that same time
two days after movie wrote that stuff
gamer they the gamers website our group
had to shut down eSports wiki's as you
can tell here he talks about how they
invested two hundred seventy thousand
dollars into it over the course of 12
months which by the way is not that much
whenever you have to pay a couple people
to run it you just think about full-time
salaries for employees and that they
hate just over five thousand dollars
during that time that is nothing now he
further elaborated in this medium post
which as we as we exit out of their
funding thing about how with eSports
wiki she kind of shares how the
breakdown of all this is and here in you
know middle of the article or towards
the section with the different graphs
you can take a look at it but he says
that they
determined that you know just looking at
the data 80% of users we're using
adblock on eSports wiki's alright 80%
that is a dramatic number all right that
means that only one out of five people
that visit your website are being served
an ad so think about that you know if
you in a world where you have a website
that can make you $5,000 a month that is
$60,000 a year and depending on where
you live that is a pretty good salary a
lot of people would be happy with that
especially because you know running
website you can do that from anywhere in
the world so $60,000 can go pretty far
and a world of 80% adblock rate that
becomes $1,000 a month which becomes
$12,000 a year which is below the
poverty line I believe so
you know obviously eighty percent
unblock rate is pretty dramatic I can't
really discuss what adblock rates were
at any of the companies I've worked at
previously but I can tell you that it
doesn't surprise me to hear 80% and that
based off of a couple months of running
my youtube channel 80% is not surprising
so now you have a situation where it is
really hard to make money by the way
part of the reason why eSports wiki's
was making so little is because that
they are a basic you know wiki website
which means you can only serve site ads
you can't serve it's not like video for
those that don't know when you serve ads
on video like pre roller or whatever on
YouTube
those are worth dramatically more than
website ads so you cut off this huge
source of income by the way by being a
website that can only do text and data
and then you get adblock to ship so it's
not good the other thing that is
interesting to talk about with the
eSports audience and the gaming audience
is that it is a tremendously
desktop-based audience so what is
happening across the world and web
website media is right now is that you
have a lot of people
are switching to looking at stuff on
their phones or iPads or tablets or
whatever and so you have this shift
where more and more and more
increasingly these audiences are
becoming going from being a desktop
audience where people look at stuff on
their laptop or on their computer and
then they become a mobile audience and
the great thing about mobile from a
media company perspective is that you
can still serve ads there there's not
really the ad blocking stuff yet it's
not very prevalent and you know there's
also whenever people are on their phones
I think you can kind of lock them in in
a better way using apps and I think so
mobile audience as much it's it's
becoming a more valuable segment in a
lot of ways on desktop as desktop gets
more ad blocked so again when not only
are people running adblock gets such a
huge rate but then additionally it is
you know that people are looking more on
their PC than on their phone that's even
more of your audience that doesn't get
ads through the mobile stuff another
issue that's occurring is that you have
a very global audience for eSports all
right and so everybody always talks
about how great this is and I think it
is really cool like I love the fact that
my content gets viewed by people all
over the world right it's really cool I
got recognized one time at a shoe store
in Sweden all right that's just how
crazy this is the problem is is that the
u.s. is the number one most valuable
media market in the world and so when
let's say you're a youtuber if 90% of
your audience is in the US you can have
a much smaller audience than somebody
whose audience is about 50% in the US
because they're gonna make because let's
let's put it this way just for video you
kind of run ads based off of the these
CPMs right which is how much money you
get paid per thousand people that watch
an ad CPMs in the US are way more you
know like they can be five dollars you
know depending on whatever awesome deal
you have during the holidays am i spike
up to ten or whatever and then there's a
rev split with whatever company you're
using or if it's YouTube it's Google or
whatever so that's like you know pretty
good in Russia
see
pm's can be I've heard that there they
could be like 70 cents right so you're
comparing you know five dollars or more
to the seventy said so global audience
kind of hurts you on making money there
and I'm pretty sure that it also hurts
you doesn't just hurt you on the video
ad stuff but it's also hurting you on
the website ads so mu beat who has a
mostly desktop audience that's a
blocking to then he has twenty
percent of his audience let's just say
based on these other numbers that are
from people outside or that that aren't
running adblock but probably half of
those people are outside the US so then
that ad money is dramatically less
valuable most likely it's it's not good
right now then you kind of think all
right well at least it gets to pocket
all of that money well not really
because running a site with a lot of
traffic means that you're gonna pay a
lot of server costs
I think mu beat has other people at work
along with him like Asian beat for
instance who post some of the stuff it
is a full-time job like he often talks
about when he goes on vacation and all
the stuff part pours out or he goes to
sleep like this guy is on it he really
wants to create all this amazing content
for people and yet I highly doubt that
he is doing incredibly well financially
despite having probably the most popular
League of Legends website in the world
which by the way is the most popular
game in the world it's it's a huge pity
and again like this guy should be wildly
successful he doesn't it's not just an
eSports website it is so much more right
like it's not just limited the eSports
audience he has a lot other stuff so
anyway he has tried to figure out other
ways to make money right because when
you have a big enough audience hopefully
you can monetize it somehow so maybe you
can't make money off of ads right but
with a large audience you should be able
to to figure out some way to do it and
obviously crowdfunding is huge thing
right now now I just saw today that
thorne was able to crowd fund a new show
that he's returning one of his shows and
that was a pretty successful patreon
they needed like 2500 and they were I
believe they're pretty close to making
it right now if they haven't already
gotten it
this is the surrender at 20 patreon
which I know it was started I think it
was earlier than it was at least at the
end of 2016 so it's probably been out
for at least a year if not earlier and
right now it's sitting at 448 dollars
per month I know that this number
actually was wet much lower a year ago
we're sorry a month ago whenever he made
that post but several different people
saw him talking about the ad revenue
issues and all that stuff and so that
number went up so you know I'm probably
gonna do a different video where I talk
about my situation what I'm trying to do
and all this kind of thing but when
people suggest that I do patreon I have
yet to see a very successful patreon in
eSports maybe the thorne one will be the
first one but even then that's at a
pretty small scale because it's only for
one show so massive audience
everyone's at blocking they're not
really crowdfunding in a very meaningful
way not a good situation he also has an
Amazon affiliate link up but that's
probably not doing too much for him
either so anyway just the reason I did
this is because I again just think that
like most audiences would not care about
this stuff nobody would watch this video
perhaps no one will watch this video but
I think that the eSports audience in
particular is incredibly passionate and
very interested in knowing what's going
on behind the scenes and understanding
this type of stuff and nobody is really
transparent in eSports which is one of
the big things I get frustrated by and
so I'm trying to sort of a raise
awareness of just the economics of this
stuff and again I don't think like a lot
of people will say well I'll just turn
it off adblock that's nice but quite
frankly the way that this stuff works on
our scale it's on a scale of like
hundreds of thousands to millions of
people even if everyone watches this
video which I doubt a little get even
close to 100,000 views and they turn off
adblock every single one of those people
you're not really gonna make that much
of a change right so look it's great if
you want to do it but I don't know
either way I just want everybody
kind of have a context for how the stuff
works I feel really bad about Moe beat I
am in an okay position because I can
probably just go get a job elsewhere but
I this guy works really really hard for
everything he does and it just sucks
that there's just no money in it because
of the type of website he runs on the
audience he has anyway that's this has
been this episode of Travis talks hope
you've enjoyed it you can check out more
of my coverage of eSports stuff over on
my youtube channel which is right here
if you're watching us and if you do want
to support me you're gonna do so over at
Travis Khafre comm slash support there's
a link below cuz guess what adblock
rates are pretty bad on YouTube too
anyway thanks for watching